Great.
Back on. Yep.
So.
Okay,
yesterday I was checking the bug like for
the counters when we load,
I mean the update counters.
Sorry.
And basically like the bug seemed to be
like when we load additional pages,
Yep.
like for loads lags,
it caused a bug because it was
disappearing.
But then I decided to go and try the same
for the two.
transport orders.
So I decided that I will assign 10
transport orders to different vehicles
and I decided not to pick a pre-existing
vehicles but rather assign like a custom
licence plate for each one of those.
So I went test one, test 2,
test 3 and so on.
What was not expected at least I think
It's not expected from user point of view
and something they have pointed out like
quite some time ago was that, for example,
if I have two transport orders assigned
to a vehicle with, let's say,
a custom licence plate number,
for example, test 2,
they won't appear grouped. They are not.
treated as transport orders with assigned
vehicle.
And this is because of the grouping we
are making on the back end.
So I don't really think that this is a
desired behavior. I think that,
for example,
if I decide to assign 2 transport orders
Yeah.
to a vehicle with a custom licence plate,
regardless what it is.
They should appear grouped,
and we should lazy load them as assigned
transport orders.
And this is not the case currently.
I mean, the question is like, have we,
I mean, I do I remember correctly,
they have brought this up in the past
because I'm pretty confident that they
did.
I think it was on one of the
presentations that Max Božić pointed this
out. And also, the other question is like,
it should be a relatively small change on
the back end.
I tried to do it yesterday myself. I mean,
I think I'm returning code.
I did the correctly grouped ones,
but like what is?
What is not expected,
at least from my side,
is that now the request completes,
but we are just showing a loading
indicator on the front end,
so it's something which is not expected
definitely,
at least from my point of view.
Like once we change the grouping to see
only a loading slider on the pickup on it.
And.
page for the transport orders. So,
so basically, like,
I really think that it's worth
investigating this.
I really think that it's not a desired
behaviour to not group transport orders
assigned to, let's say,
a vehicle with custom licence plate. So,
yeah.
What do you guys think?
To be honest, I cannot follow right now.
I was in a totally different space until
Cem.
the one minute before the refinement.
I would need dedicated time to think
about it, understand the issue, etc.
Maybe
You can describe it quickly.
Or we use this.
I can show you,
I think I can show you like what I have
in mind, even with the, with the.
In the test environment,
I show you exactly like what I have in
mind because it's quite easy to reproduce,
I think.
Okay.
And we have, I think,
three to five months.
Whoa.
Yeah, yeah, it's it will be quick.
So, let me share my screen quickly.
You should be able to see it right now.
So, okay, I go here.
So, you see this loads, this is test,
right? They have all assigned them.
Yep.
Okay,
I'll create two more then and I'll show
you exactly what I have in mind.
Let's see one with more. Okay, this one,
let's say it's for, let's say 18th.
Twelve.
Hey.
Okay,
and now let's create another one in the
same range.
Okay,
so what we do now is we just did 20 and
21, so we just go into the details.
Here and here.
And what I will do is I will just assign
a custom.
Licence plate to those.
Yeah.
See,
it would reload both of the pages now,
so I can,
I will decide it reloads them because
it's an operation which changes the
transport order, so test to vote.
So what you normally expect is to see
those two grouped to this vehicle, right?
Mhm.
Yeah.
But it's not the case because we treat
them as unassigned, you see,
because the grouping is over a truck
match code ID and not over a truck
licence plate as well.
Like in the cases where we have the truck
match code ID,
we are properly displaying those,
as you can see here.
Right.
Yeah.
But if it's like a just a custom licence
plate, we are not doing this.
Right.
Um, yeah, but isn't this the agreed um...
Uhh...
Behavior.
Not sure. Not sure to be honest.
This is why I'm bringing this up because
at least my expectation would be to see
those two grouped on the same vehicle.
Yeah.
And I think that this was a question,
like, from Max by having the past.
There.
This is what I recorded yesterday. So,
basically, we need we need to see, like,
what what we are going to do with those
two.
I mean, I'm pretty sure they want this.
Like, I mean, it is agreed, in my opinion,
if I remember correctly,
this is agreed behaviour that when we
switch from the licence plate to the key
as basically the...
Um...
Yeah.
Yeah, the common ground.
But we never had like a fallback if there
was nothing,
but we have like a vehicle licence plate.
Okay.
Yeah, exactly.
way forward. I'm thinking, so this is,
in my opinion, this is agreed behavior.
Yeah.
I am 100% sure they want this specific
behavior.
That's when you have two,
when you have the same licence plate,
they should basically become one as well.
If we know how much extra effort this is.
Okay.
Let's see if we can still make it as well,
if not.
Oh no, if they want it that way, I mean,
we'll keep it that way. It's fine.
It's fine.
Like, I'm okay with it.
Just wanted to show it just because it
Yeah.
looks strange,
at least for me in first glance, so yeah.
I mean, it's good that you're seeing this,
because this is business behavior.
Level 6.
It's very good that you're seeing this as
well. But like I said,
we had to switch from the truck licence
plate towards the mesh code ID.
And since we are not.
Matching on the licence plate,
but on the match code ID,
this is expected.
OK, I mean, if you're sure,
like it's fine if you need to cheque it
The.
with them, it's also fine, just like,
so we don't end up.
It's good that you raised it. I mean,
I can cheque it again with Patrick and I
Yeah.
know the answer they will be giving to me
will be, oh no, we want this as well.
So if this is an easy thing,
we can just merge in as well.
Nice. OK, let's just do it.
We can cheque it,
we can treat it as a book and we can
cheque it,
but let's first discuss this with them
because I really don't want to spend
effort which won't be needed, which can,
Yep.
which we can live without.
So basically let's see what they come
back with and we can discuss it.
But like it would be even more
problematic if they find it further down
the road.
So I prefer to get this out of the way
right now and
Just, yeah,
be confident that at least the displaying
of those things is how they expect it to
be.
Okay, good catch.
I will address this with Patrick and
decide when we're going to be doing this,
because I know we will be doing this at
some point.
And it's good that you bring this up
before they bring it up.
Yep, okay, so yeah,
basically this was my topic from
yesterday.
Thank you.
Then, Matthias, the stage is yours.
Yeah, yeah, okay.
Okay, so...
Let me share.
We are talking about the recovery topic
of...
Send on a shipment,
so once we had an outage of CDZ.
Uh, close in general,
no matter the reason.
Could be network outage,
data stream failure,
also database side issues like the right
ahead logic timeouts,
which we know they exist for big branches.
It's literally just one hour that this
work ahead logic.
Yeah,
Orga Hadzhiev can cover up after that,
you lose data.
We need to be able to recover such gaps.
And this is the last bit of resilience
that we have in terms of gaps.
And we've talked about this a lot already
in Sofia,
then later with Ivaylo Pashov involved in
also Yosif recently finishing a POC here.
So, it's really validated by now,
and what I'm presenting is really the
Minimal version we can build.
for a go-live. So that's, I think,
important, again, for the mindset.
If we challenge this,
if we go through the questions,
if we go through the concept,
keep in mind we want to build something
within the go-live scope. Anything else,
of course,
has potential to be improved beyond
go-lives.
specifically with regards to automation
and so on.
But that's not what we want to focus on
today, to use the time wisely.
Scope again, just so that it's clear,
it's one table, not more,
not a full sync of something else.
It's just syncing with the sentence table.
And of course,
the new disposite things that come with
it, literally legs and lots.
We had a few options considered back then,
but really only this one is achievable in
the short amount of time.
To give you a quick extreme example,
we had one option of an outbox pattern on
a TMS site, which of course is completely
unimaginable,
because team S team would have to build
something that assures consistency
between the systems.
And we know how the collaboration works
with them, how fast they are, et cetera.
It's the nightmare. So this was de-scoped.
There were two other options that also
don't.
makes sense or are not feasible within
the scope.
So, back to the content,
if you don't have questions so far.
Okay. The recovery is a two-step process.
We'll see why in a bit. And also,
I think I've touched that already.
Why do we recover manually? Of course,
these things can be automated so that
Once you detect that, for example,
a network is back or data stream is back
or whatever was the outage is back,
could be recovered automatically,
but this is also not in scope for June.
So just imagine someone would say, hey,
the outage is
gone,
let's trigger this recovery manually.
That's how it's gonna work.
And of course,
the endpoint would have some options.
For example, the branch selection.
You probably don't want to run it for all
branches later once there are more
branches live, but for some or just one.
And you want to decide for which time
window.
because you most probably know when the
outage was, when it started,
when it ended.
So you don't have to rethink everything,
but just this time frame.
Except for deletes,
which we'll discuss in a bit. For deletes,
it's a bit more.
Difficult.
So let's start with a two-step approach.
Why 2 steps?
Because insert and updates are kind of
more easy because for them you still have
the old shipments available in TMS.
That's really the crucial differentiation.
You can go back to TMS and ask what
changed
between this and that time with some
time-based logic and just pull that data
and rerun our existing resolvers,
aka business logic. That's the easy part.
For deletes, you can't do that because
Obviously, they are no longer there,
these records.
TMS also doesn't have a soft delete,
which would mean the records are still
there, but marked deleted. So literally,
physically,
they are gone in the source database,
which leads to, I would phrase it,
an inversion of the cheque loop,
it means we need to go back to our latest
state, known state of legs,
and derive the parent shipments from it,
so that these list of shipments is the
one to be checked.
literally for existence.
Does this and this and this shipment
still exist, yes or no?
Or was it deleted during this outage?
That's the reverse-based approach for
deletes,
which makes it a two-step process.
The question probably comes up,
why only unplanned legs?
The reason is really why I even asked
that is because if you don't limit the
volume of legs on our side to be checked,
it becomes very big.
And I wanted to find out if we really
need to cheque dispatched legs and
shipments. And the answer is no, we don't.
It is not necessary.
They will and cannot be deleted after
being dispatched,
which means for us the amount of legs to
be checked is way smaller.
And it's just the unplanned ones.
Good. So what does it mean in general?
We have the recovery endpoint triggered.
Actually,
I think the arrow should rather be here.
Anyway.
O.
Questions?
Just a question about the delete.
So if I understood correctly,
Mhm.
like we would need to cheque like our
internal legs against their shipment
Yeah.
database, right? Shipment table,
not database, but table.
Correct.
Yeah, exactly.
So, like, uh...
Yeah, probably this could, like,
probably like conceptually is this like a
separate for the from the other flows or
can be handled in the single flow,
because, like,
once we cheque which records are inserted,
we need also to have, for example,
like both data sets,
like our legs and the shipments.
Regardless,
whether they're like the whole on bond
shipments data set. So, basically,
that would mean that we'll be doing this
comparison like once when we track,
for example,
whether new shipments are resorted during
this outage.
And, like, isn't it the same, basically,
like, but for the deleted ones, like,
cheque which which legs are present in
our leg data set and cheque which
shipment is no longer in their Xenon
table, like,
is this isn't this like part of the...
It.
To cheque the leads.
Same flow.
Sorry, Božić.
Yeah.
Cheque the delete,
it goes other way around. We check,
first we retrieve the legs and what data
in new Dispo and check,
like see what legs we have associated
with what shipment IDs and
Using these shipment IDs,
we cheque against the DMS data set to see
if we have, let's say,
next for shipments that do not,
Mmh.
and we delete. The problem there, like,
not a problem,
but the challenge we have there is
related to how much data we retrieve.
Because for example, for the updates,
we can make queries such as like,
give me the shipments that have been
changed in the last 15 seconds, let's say.
This won't work for the deletes,
for the delete,
like I'm not sure if you covered this
because I just joined,
but this won't work for the deletes
because when...
First, when shipment is deleted,
we don't have the updated property like
updated. And we cannot simply say,
give me the updated shipments in the last
15 seconds,
which means that to track if something is
deleted,
we need to always retrieve all the
shipments from TMS.
The good thing is that we, in this case,
we only need the IDs.
We don't need any other relevant fields.
So that's how we track the leads.
We always retrieve all the shipment IDs
from TMS and cheque against that.
That's really the only way to to.
Track deletes.
Yeah,
I think we went through that before you
joined.
I described why we have this reverse
cheque for deletions because the records
simply are no longer there.
Good. Oh yeah.
Yeah, we have to always follow the date.
Does this answer your question, Boyan?
Yeah, yeah.
Okay.
But the good thing is first that
retrieving all the shipment IDs from TMS
when we use directly this end of table
and not the view is quick.
I think what was it, Matthias,
I think I showed it to you.
I think it was taking like a second,
something like that to retrieve all the
Okay.
shipment IDs.
And given that this functionality will
mostly act as a recovery mechanism,
meaning that at this point we will not
replace the CDC at all,
like probably we won't hear it working as
a background process working every 15
seconds and so on. Like in this case,
when we, when we.
this is going to be used purely as
recovery.
The performance doesn't really matter,
actually.
Yeah.
But even if we have it as a service,
it's not that slow, and I think it's fine.
Good point, by the way,
about CDC replacement.
We discussed this a few weeks back.
It was an idea when we started thinking
about this recovery,
that it could become a polling-based CDC,
which we custom built.
I really think by now
not that,
because the deletions are really more
difficult to detect,
and it's way easier to get them via CDC,
because there you have a real event,
and that's event-driven,
which is way more performance.
Well, like...
1.
Like, I will say that they are hard,
like true,
like we have to hold all the data,
but again, I'm saying like, essentially,
these are two requests that we make
against each branch. One,
the main query that we are going to be
making would be queries such as...
give me the shipments that have been
updated in the last,
like whatever seconds.
That's one of the queries.
And the other queries give me all
shipment IDs. All together,
these two queries executed in parallel,
probably will finish in a second or a
second and a half even, let's say.
Then there goes the our syncing process,
internal TMS data syncing, our.
Database is quite fast, so...
Like this whole process should be,
should be quick and I, I don't even,
I don't see how, like,
I think that that it's completely usable.
I wouldn't go as far as saying that we
cannot use this as a replacement.
Yeah, good. Maybe I phrased it wrong.
It just...
relax the situation a bit.
And it's good to have this POC done.
As always, we've learned A lot.
We are now working fact-based,
not assumption-based.
Such decisions will come after June
anyway,
maybe after more tests and things that
are done to validate the situation even
more.
I'm just glad we found the basic building
blocks now that cover the requirement for
the go-live,
which is a recovery system that works.
So, good. Let's go back on track.
Any questions until here?
I think where did we stop?
Probably with the data flow.
So someone triggers the recovery endpoint
after the outage is fixed in the Dispo
backend. From there, we have two sides,
obviously, that are involved.
One is the Cloud SQL database with the
lakes.
where all that logic,
like philtre logic will be executed and
on the other side, the team has bridge,
which is our channel to the databases.
I think that's clear.
Um, key point also important for the...
Yeah, for the good feeling actually,
because we know we don't rewrite a lot
here.
The POC showed that we can reuse the CDC
resolvers completely.
I think that's a good sign,
which also shows that the POC is covering
a huge part of the implementation
actually already.
So that's a good thing.
Not sure if we need to go deeper here.
What did the POC cover? Full branch sync.
Yeah, sure. That was still the case.
It did.
This can, can.
Yeah.
One more important point regarding this
table. Like what I want to mention,
this is this old state derival.
Like for this data sync for,
Mhm.
what we essentially need to do is compare.
Two shipments, like,
like the old shipment and the new
shipment. New shipment is clear,
like these are coming from TMS,
we retrieve them. The old shipments,
we don't have such, like in new Dispo,
as we all know,
we don't have the concept of shipments,
we only have legs and walks. This means...
to that we have to somehow derive what
was the old state of the shipment.
The only way that we can do this is using
our legs.
So like we essentially end up deriving
the old shipment from the legs.
What we do is we retrieve all the legs
for a shipment ID, we take whatever leg,
it doesn't really matter.
and we built the shipment out of it.
There are a few assumptions here.
The assumptions are that these legs and
all derive and inherit all of the
shipment fields and they do not ever
change per leg. This is why this is
Safe to do to derive the old shipment
from the leg.
If this changes in the future,
this will break the functionality,
and this is like very important,
like probably Max knows the best what's
coming up for us, but to put it simply,
like leg inherits multiple fields,
like weight.
Volume palette spaces,
four palette spaces, all these fields,
and they are never changed, but like,
and this is the assumption we have here.
If any point,
if at any point a leg derives from a
shipment and it could be changed like
independently from the other legs.
This is going to be a problem,
but right now I don't think that's the
case.
And that's our assumption here.
Mhm.
Yeah.
Regarding what is coming up,
there will be basically this is now
future what they want.
So I really want to make a difference
between what we need right now and what
in future they want.
So in future,
legs will be able to split up. So a leg,
basically the VL leg, could be, in theory,
VL1 and VL2.
But in the end,
come back to be just basically merge
again into a single HL,
which comes afterwards.
This is not relevant for this use case,
as long as, like,
Okay.
no matter how they split, like,
the idea is that all these fields that
the Leicht inherits from the shipment,
such as the origin, destination,
as I said, wait, all these fields,
as long as these fields are not changed,
and we can reconstruct a shipment from a
Leicht.
We are safe.
Reconstruct a shipment from a leg.
That's what we do currently for this
mechanism to work. Yes,
Raul.
we derive from it from from from a like.
Like the best.
logic, Max.
We only know legs in the Dispo,
and the lake knows its parent shipment.
This is logic.
Yeah, so basically, if if we...
So, like in the example I was stating,
Currently,
a leg is holding all the weight and all
the BSR, all the BSR of the shipment.
This is the current state.
Mmh.
Yeah.
So, basically,
if the if the shipment changes,
the lag changes, if the lag changes,
and basically we can reconstruct,
we can basically find the truth in the
TMS.
This is...
We are not able to think like to get this
to derive the shipment right now from the
legs.
It's not just looking at the shipment.
Looking at the shipment in TMS gives us
the current new state.
We are deriving the old state and we are
deriving this because we persist actually
this shipment fields as part of our legs.
Our legs have all these fields, as I said,
origin, destination, weight, whatever,
Yeah.
and this using these fields,
we reconstruct the old shipment.
And why do we need to reconstruct the old
shipment?
That.
This,
we have to compare old shipment and new
shipment to see what changes can happen
for this mechanism.
We are pretty much need to compare what
was before and what is now.
Yeah, okay.
I'm not seeing a problem here now.
Well, if at some point these fields,
let's say the weight, let's say,
Yeah.
right now each of the shipment legs,
they all, including the shipment,
they all have the same values, right?
Yep.
So it's safe to reconstruct,
let's say that we reconstruct the
shipment from a leg.
We see that what we currently have for
this old shipment and its legs is that
the weight is 50, let's say.
We then retrieve the new shipment from
TMS using the ID and see that the
shipment there,
that the weight there for the shipment is
70.
Let's say we detected a change,
like the weight increase.
That's how this works now. In future,
in future, if something like,
Yeah.
like let's say that it gets possible to
change the weight per leg.
that is going to be an issue.
Because then, like,
Yeah, okay.
I'm not saying that it becomes impossible
to use this mechanism,
but then we have to figure out a strategy,
which in the end,
we will resolve the same to reconstruct
the shipment safely from the legs.
Right now, this is simple.
Yeah.
because these are always the same and are
not changed. But in future,
if this changes somehow,
we have to implement a strategy to help
to derive this or this treatment from our
existing clicks. Yeah.
But this will be then development of
basically first,
basically make our system able to handle
these splitting up of legs and then as
well updating our recovery mechanism.
Yeah, it might be possible. Then later,
let's say that we introduce some
I don't.
splitting logic for the legs and we are
able to split the legs and split the
Yes.
weight.
Then what we have to do is adjust this
mechanism to make sure that we can do the
other way around.
When we reconstruct the old shipment,
let's say we aggregate the legs weight.
and we reconstruct the shipment again.
This pretty much means that we have to
add new functionality. Right now,
this is coming out-of-the-box because
these are not changed. Later,
if we introduce something like this,
Yep.
as long as we are somehow able in theory
to reconstruct it, we are fine.
Matthias, you have your hand raised.
I think we should go back to the actual
topic because what you discuss is
valuable but future-driven.
And we have only so much time left to go
through this,
and we want to make this waterproof.
Yeah, so, but to sum up, I agree with you,
Yosif.
We will most likely need to reconsider
this or basically go over this and
refactor this mechanism once we introduce
this splitting.
This is accepted from my side.
Because, or due to the restriction of,
yeah, time we have right now.
So, I heard your concern and I see this,
but currently we cannot build something.
Bigger.
But this,
currently we don't have to build it. Like,
this is not about time.
Yeah, that's right. So we're good.
Yes, right now we are just good.
In future we add more functionality,
Oh.
Yep.
hence we have to adjust the existing
functionality. That's it.
Exactly.
All right, then we're on the same page.
Correct. It's the typical flow.
The spectrum of things to consider when
adding features just widens.
In the future,
we have to consider the recovery
mechanism with everything we change.
Good.
So...
Back to the documents.
Uh...
Aha, yes, POC.
So the POC covers already A lot.
It proved a lot of things that we've just
discussed. What it didn't do,
it didn't philtre by time.
It just did a full branch sync as we've
seen here.
However,
it supports already update time filtering.
I think that's also just a little bonus
because it is the foundation for the
watermark filtering.
And then I think the most important thing
for now in this meeting is to go through
the open questions.
because they define if more development
work is created or if things are already
answered and therefore solved.
Good. So what is the watermark?
The watermark is really a time,
a moment which defines how far back we
need to go to cheque for change shipments.
Why do we even wonder about this?
In my opinion,
it's necessary because we need to make
sure we don't put unnecessary load on
these databases. They are in production,
they are very sensitive,
they are running on very constrained
hardware. So
The less we query, the better.
And therefore, the question arises,
where do we get that time from?
How far do we go back when recovering?
And there's two things we could do,
in my opinion,
and we need to discuss this and align
with Nagra.
One is something kind of automated,
because the state on our database has
time aspects stored.
We know when the last
leg was changed successfully,
we could use that as an anchor.
Option B would be to maintain some kind
of state in the CDC flow where we know
the last time it ran successfully,
literally the last time we successfully
received
A CDC event and processed it.
That's the two options I see. Oh, Yosif.
Yeah, some input on this,
on this like here,
we have the same issue that we had for
the...
Change changes counter and the fact that
what we persist in new displaced timings
is time zone sensitive,
where what is persisted is time stamps in
TMS is not time zone.
So what this means for the scope of this
POC is that we trigger this endpoint,
which will then trigger this mechanism
using this timestamp. We say,
we call the endpoint and say,
update whatever branch after.
Why can we provide the date now? Like,
like we need to be able to provide the
date that is time zone sensitive
according to the TMS branch that we are
acting against.
This is important and this is not
something that we can automatically
handle because again,
we don't have each time zone for each
branch.
But I think that for the scope of this
release, this is fine. First,
because we are going to...
First,
this is going to be executed on demand.
It's not something that is going to run
as a background process, as we agreed,
at least for now. And second,
we are going to be having a single branch.
We know what the time zone is there.
So let's say that...
There is a CDC outage that has occurred,
let's say,
yesterday in 12 o'clock at noon.
Now we had a outage.
Now the outage is resolved.
The CDC is running.
We need to sync the data. We know,
then we would know which branch this is
because we have a single branch.
We know what the time zone there.
Let's say that they are Germany time,
they are like 2 hours behind.
So you'll just be providing,
we'll be calling this endpoint and we're
providing yesterday 10 o'clock.
And we should be all good.
But here we also have these time zone
challenges that we had before.
That's what I want to say.
Mhm.
Absolutely, I think the time zone.
Um, challenge still needs to be resolved.
Totally agree.
Goods.
So what's next?
I think this is quite clear,
still a challenge, however,
it could also be related to four,
if things are idempotent anyway.
You can make this quite generous and
overlap or even run the full scan, right?
That's always an option.
If things are idempotent,
you don't destroy anything.
You can just run it full and be safe
anyway.
It's just a matter of how much load to
put on the system and how long it takes.
But I think it's just nicer if we can
provide something more targeted and
custom tailored.
Good. Good triggers.
I think that's really not a development
task for this refiner.
I just wanted to have it covered.
It's probably something on PO level, Max,
to be aligned on and specifically for the
expectation management that everybody
knows what's going to happen.
in the live situation.
So especially who triggers the recovery.
Cem.
Exactly. Both questions, who detects it,
who recovers it,
is all operations questions.
Nothing actually to be answered or even
discussed here in this round,
because here we develop it.
These two are operational.
Good. That one's still crucial.
I think Yosif, you mentioned that already,
and I think it is item potent.
I just wanted to bring it up again and
confirm it.
Could you say something about this?
Yeah, this is by its nature.
I can give a comparison just so that
everyone can understand. So the CDC,
let's say,
is not that important because the events
which are essentially representing
changes that are coming are historical.
Meaning that we receive an event now,
for some reason, if we don't process it,
we can receive it. Let's say we will try,
we will try,
we can leave it till we can receive this
event tomorrow, but by this time,
like the...
the data that the event is representing
and the current state of the data might
be different.
That's why it's important to be
independent. Also,
these events could be executed in
parallel and so on and so on.
With this mechanism,
like idempotency is not a concern because.
..
it always, when it's being executed,
it always retrieves the current last
state of the data,
meaning that let's say we have an insert,
we see a new shipment has been inserted,
we created the legs for it,
And so on, then we then we run it again.
The next time we run it,
we are just going to see that we already
have inserted the legs and, like,
we won't we won't make a double insert.
This is true as long as this process is
not executed concurrently in parallel,
which is not in the case here.
This is this mechanism right now that
we're going to give them is.
is supposed and meant to be executed on
demand from operational team.
So it doesn't make sense that two people
from operations team trying to execute
this mechanism exactly at the same time.
So that I think this is not a concern.
So I think that, yeah, we should be.
Save there.
This could be sure only if this mechanism
is executed concurrently.
which is not the case.
And it should not be the case even if
this mechanism later we implement as a
replacement for CDC and it's not
triggered on demand,
but let's say automatic process with the
host service or whatever,
such mechanisms should are not meant to
be
to be around concurrently.
That's why then later we have these
points for multiple instances running and
how we can solve this.
What we need to guarantee is that there's
a single process running at a time and
there's no overlap.
Between such processes.
Uh-huh.
Good.
Then, next one,
multi-instance on concurrency,
as the back end scales horizontally.
This is something I think we need to
consider.
Um...
Do we, because this is sorry again,
this is this is a topic only for the case
Your school? Yeah.
where we have this process implemented as
a replacement,
implemented like an automatic mechanism
that's constantly running every 15
seconds and whatever this topic.
Is valid only then,
when when we have it via an endpoint
triggered on demand, this is not relevant,
so...
Why is it not relevant?
The load balancer literally decides if we
need multiple instances for the request.
The load balancer, load balancer,
in the end,
will forward the request to a single
instance. There won't be,
there won't be the case where the load
balancer, for example,
Mhm.
forwards the same request to the two
instances.
Yeah, maybe I was formulating it wrong.
I was in the maximum situation
considering 64 branches live.
We get a request to run it for all 64.
I just imagine it should be split across
instances,
but also then you would have separation
by branch or branches and it would not be
a conflict, correct? Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay, good.
Last one I think we touched already.
It's just a sensitive topic,
the load we put on team as databases.
I would want to align on that with them,
asking questions like,
all these queries fine or come up with
examples for a three-hour outage on
branch XYZ,
we would run these queries resulting in 7,
000 whatever IDs records returned.
Is that an issue, yes or no?
Do we have to throttle it to limit
execution of query in batches or with
pauses of a second in between?
That's just the context here.
I want to verify and not just blindly
assume that our huge...
partially huge selects are just fine.
I think that's what we should do.
I don't know what the questions are
really going to be,
but we should maybe collect them during
our implementation where we collect and
gather some more knowledge about this.
and then post back these questions to
them.
Good.
Last one I just crossed out because it is
confirmed.
So that's fine.
Then literally the next step is actually
going into backlog.
sculpting. We have some code already,
so I guess it's rather different approach.
We wouldn't write everything from scratch
as if it wouldn't be there yet.
We would probably build on the POC and
just formulate what still is needed.
But that's actually up to you.
I don't know what you prefer.
I just wanted to outline what I see left
to be done.
What is left to be done, like this POC,
to be honest, covers a lot.
Yeah.
It covers the basic mechanism for this
recovery. Most of the core logic is there.
What is needed is just to do some,
first do some refactoring, obviously this.
Just refine the code there.
In terms of implementations,
what we need to do is expose the endpoint
for the mechanism. That's one thing.
You dated it there.
Another thing that we should do is
implement this deletion detection.
Right now,
Like we are making a single query,
this main query I told you about,
where you were just saying,
give me the shipments that have been
updated in the last,
like whatever time we provide as an input
to the endpoint. In addition to that,
we have to make additional requests to
each branch,
which is to retrieve all the TMS IDs.
This is for the deletion detection.
This is something that it's not done in
the POC.
So that's another thing that we should do.
Yeah, that's what it mean. I would just...
literally wrap up the POC to production
level with the features that it has,
merge it,
and then create the PBIs needed to add
everything you just mentioned,
like it's all written here, the endpoint,
scope, deletion, detection, etc.
That's one approach to also distribute
the work across the team.
Because if you say,
I'll do everything in the POC branch and
ticket, I think it gets convoluted.
We lose track of what's left, what's done,
and we don't.
Use the Team spectrum.
That was just my thinking.
Also for Max to have an insight on what's
left and where we stand.
So yeah, how do you want to go on here?
Probably Yosif and Boyan,
you just draught the PBIs,
maybe that's a way forward.
Design, yeah.
Okay. Yes.
And that was it.
Deeper insights can be found in the
write-up of Yosif.
Oops.
Yeah,
I think I have to update the link and the
branch of Yosif in as well as a deeper
analysis of.
Everything we've discussed,
it really touches a lot of aspects and
was then boiled down to this refinement
brief here. So if you want to go deeper,
please feel free to do so.
Good, Max, back to you.
Hello?
Sneezing? I thought we bored you to death.
Okay.
No, you did not.
It was rather me just like continuously
sneezing for, I don't know, one minute.
Lapp.
Bless you.
Yes, regarding the PBIs, Yosif,
can you create them today?
And basically that we can have a final
look over them before Matthias leaves for
vacation.
Okay.
That would be great.
So what's left for me is talk to Patrick
about the topic you have raised, Boyan,
regarding the grouping of transport
orders. This is number one. Number 2 is,
yes, Yosif.
Yeah, sorry that, like,
before we move from the topic,
question to Matthias,
because all this time, like, we,
at least I,
was not able to sync with Ivaylo about
any of these at any point. Like,
I haven't heard from him in the last,
I don't know.
More than a week, so my question is, like,
can we sync with the Ivaylo with this
with this with our approach with what we
consider there?
Do we need to?
We don't. We didn't. And in my opinion,
we can't. It's really the answer I have.
I'm.
Yeah, to be completely honest,
done with the collaboration.
It's not professional.
I don't get answers on any channel.
I have no shows on meetings.
I don't get concepts. I requested four,
five times.
We are back in the motors that it's us in
the room.
We own the solutions, the concepts.
That's my current take on it.
If you need that.
Reconfirmation with him,
because you value his insight.
Please feel free to try and get it.
But at this point,
I feel confident with this recovery
mechanism,
and I would move on as discussed just now.
Okay,
so I would sum up basically the topic
from Boyana, number one. Number 2,
talking about and confirming the ops
behavior, basically who is triggering,
who is detecting it. This is of ops side.
Yep.
Those were the leftover questions from me
and you create the tech PBIs.
Yeah.
For us to implement an estimate next week.
Right.
Alright then, see you later in the review,
not reading, retro, retro.
All right.
Yes.
Thanks.
All right.
Thank you.
Thanks, everyone. Bye.
Bye-bye.
Bye.
Bye.